# What is Jerminal?
Jerminal is a Java library for creating embedded command-line interfaces.<br>
Most applications today require (or could benefit from) a debug console. This is what Jerminal was created for:
to remove the burden of creating debug consoles that can be easily embedded into the host application.<br>
<br>
Here are some of Jerminal's prominent features:

* Auto-complete suggestions are supported for everything (directory names, command names, parameter names, parameter values).
* Commands can be created via an annotations-based API.<br>
   ```
   public class AnnotationExample {
       @Command(description = "Does nothing, really.")
       public void testCommand(OutputPrinter outputPrinter) {
           outputPrinter.println("Hello, world!");
       }
   }
   ```
   <br>
   The above code creates a command called 'testCommand' that takes no parameters.
   When executed from the command line, the command will print "Hello, world!" to the element defined as it's output
   in the host application.<br>
   The 'outputPrinter' parameter is an optional parameter that the command should declare if it wishes to print anything.

* It is easy to integrate into your application. For example, with JavaFx:
    ```
    public class JavaFxExample extends Application {
        @Override
        public void start(Stage stage) {
            try {
                // Create a console and have it process the annotations of the above defined class.
                final ShellFileSystem fileSystem = new ShellFileSystem().processAnnotations(new AnnotationExample());
                final Parent console = new ConsoleBuilder(fileSystem).build();

                // Add a console toggler. The toggler will switch between the main scene and the console scene
                // when the default ctrl+` key combination is pressed.
                SceneToggler.register(stage, console);

                // Create a boring main scene.
                final Pane root = new Pane();
                root.getChildren().add(new Label("Nothing to see here"));
                final Scene scene = new Scene(root);

                stage.setScene(scene);

                stage.show();
            } catch (Exception e) {
                throw new RuntimeException(e);
            }
        }
    }
    ```

* Commands can be grouped under directory hierarchies with unix-style directory navigation commands. TODO: Code example.
* Command parameters can be mandatory, or optional with default values or flags. TODO: Example.
* Command parameters can be passed either by position or by name (scala-style parameter passing). TODO: Example.

## Terminology
First of all, some quick terminology.<br>
This terminology may not be accurately used (with real world counterparts), but this is the terminology adopted by Jerminal.

* **Shell** - The software that parses and processes the command line and sends results to be displayed. The logic.
* **Command** - A piece of code that can be executed by the Shell.
* **File System** - A hierarchy of Commands. Commands can be grouped under directories, starting from a *root directory*.
* **Global Command** - A command that doesn't belong to any directory and can be executed from any directory.
* **Display Driver** - A component that can display the events generated by the Shell, the screen.
* **Terminal** - A Display Driver that displays everything as text.
* **Command Line Driver** - A component that can read from and write to the command line.
* **Console** - The complete package - a Shell, a Terminal and a Command Line Driver.

## More In Depth
Jerminal is separated into 2 basic components: backend and frontend. The backend is the core logic and the frontend is the
integration layer of the backend with a specific platform.<br>
<br>
All that is required to create a console is:

1. Provide the debug command hierarchy that will act as the Shell's File System.
2. Hooks calls to Jerminal's API.

### 1. The Command Hierarchy
The basic unit of Jerminal is a command. In a file system structure, a command can be thought of as a file.

Commands can be grouped under directories. The Shell's File System contains a *root directory* which can contain
 child commands or directories. Directories can be nested to unlimited depth.

The Shell operates as would be expected from a standard command line interface - it maintains a *current working directory*
 and supports calling commands both relatively from the *current working directory* and with an absolute path from the *root*.

Jerminal comes with built-in control commands - *cd*, *ls* and *man*. These are implemented as Global Commands.<br>
Global Commands are commands that aren't bound to any parent directory. They can be executed from any *current working directory*.<br>
Adding custom global commands is supported for commands whose names don't clash with the built-in commands.

#### 1.1 Command Parameters
Commands may take 0 or more parameters of the types string, boolean, int, double, flag.<br>
Any parameter may be declared as optional, in which case a default value will be provided if it isn't supplied.<br>

* String parameters may either be constrained to a set of possible values, or be allowed any value.
 Furthermore, if constrained, the values may either be pre-determined or calculated at runtime through a value supplier.
 Values consisting of more then 1 word (separated by whitespace) can be surrounded with either single '' or double "" quotes.
* Boolean parameters only accept the values *true* or *false*.
* Numerical parameters (int and double) cannot be auto completed and don't (currently) support value constraints.
* Flags are special boolean parameters that are always optional and default to *false* if not provided.
 They can be set to *true* only by specifying their name. For example, the control command *ls* has a flag *-r* which makes
 it recurse into sub-directories. 'ls -r' is valid, but 'ls true' is not.

### 2. Display Driver and Command Line Driver
The DisplayDriver and CommandLineDriver are the 2 Service Provider Interfaces that must be implemented in order to integrate
Jerminal into another application.

The DisplayDriver is a higher-level interface which can display the different events generated by the Shell.
 This can be implemented if a more graphically sophisticated UI is desired.<br>
There is also a lower-level interface, a Terminal, which displays all the events generated by the Shell as text.
 This should be enough for most cases.

The CommandLineDriver is a component that can read from and write to the command line. The command line is the text input
area.
TBD: Mention that this is not the only way to implement a console.

Jerminal currently comes with implementations for these SPI's for libGdx and JavaFX.<br>
Any contributions will be certainly welcome :)

### 3. Hook calls to Jerminal
TBD.

# TBD
* Auto complete
* Annotations
* Programmatic creation
* Call parameters by name or by position